books:
elements of style
the craftsman

software craftsmanship not a metaphor
Motivation:
Motivation is more important than talent. 
Craftmanship is a human impulse. We want to do a job well. 
Conflicting objectives - impaired by competitive pressure, frustration and obsession
The 'How' and the 'Why'. Hannah ARendt: ANimal laborans vs Home Faber. Animal laborans is not asking why. Home Faber asking why. 
Always good to quote aristotle. 
There shouldn't be a seperation between designers and builders. 
Unequal workplaces:
    Why are stradivarious violins not as good after he died despite the fact he didn;t personally make all of them
    head and hand, thinking and geeling, what and why. 
    Leads to fractured skill.
    When people who do deployments, analyze business value and build code are seperate then skill is fractured. 
Path to fewer erros
LEarning is a process of trial and error. A path from many errors to fewer errors. 
Teach to learn and reason rather than imitate. 

Perfection is a good thing, balanced with pragmatism
Material focus
    Grain of change
    The head and the hand working in unison.
Metaphor of a wood carver. They have an idea of a form. Look at the material and the tools. 
They suddenly encounter knots in the wood and other features. They work round it and form something that fits the type form in their head.

Continous deployment is so important because it reduces the size of the feedback loop in fractured skills

Minimal Force
    Chinese proverb about cleaving a grain of rice with a cleaver
    Are we using a sledgehammer to crack a nut? 

Generic Vs Specific
    The scalpel vs guillotine for cutting a straight line in a piece of paper. 
    Scalpel is very generic, so requires a massive about skill to carry out the specific task that guillotine can carry out with no skill.

Conclusion:
    THinking deeper helps with the mindset
    leverage our impulse, eliminate confluciting forces
    Learn through experimentation and organize our obsession, keep material focues, apply minimum foce,
    master the generic and the specific

Questions:
Talka bout pragmatism? How do you apply craft when deadlines are pending? 
This comes down to material focus. The business objectevies have a time constraint, they are part of the material focus. 
Why is this business deadline real? Is it just a number in a spreadsheet? Make sure it's a real deadline before you make compromise. 

Is craftmanship compatible with classic hierarchy in companies? 
He's not a fan of making the craftsman metaphor into hierarchial structure. What is the actual need behind the hierarchial structure? 
Make sure its meeting the need. 