How to exoanding the practices, principles and values that you care about
1: Transformation
2: Culture
3: Strategies

1 The Lean/Agile Transformation
    Large bank. Heard people say this never works. Went ahead anyway. 
    Large department. Very high attrition rate. Low motivation. 
    Big vision. Give the power back. 
    Assembling the coaching team. 
    Setting the Transformation goals. Business and technical people disagree. Lost the key people
    Failed. There doesn't seem to be a detailed dissection as to why. 
2 Culture
    Change is Hard. 
    How do you get a large organization to change culture. Not possible. 
    He created a seperate office for only people with the right mindset
    The secret to successful change is.... come back to it later. 
    WHat is culture? Coursera: Culture Drive Team BUilding
    Habits acquired as part of the culture you're in. 
    The 4 forces of culture/ cultural transmission
    1: inertial force. Culture stays around long after reason has left. 
    2: Entropic force. Random change. 
    3: Reflective (Metacultural) Force. Culture about culture. Essentially rules. 
    4: The force of interest. Do people care? 
    Current Culture moving to Wanted Culture. Inertia will stop you. Entropy random. Metaculture can help you or hinder you. Interest likewise. 
    The secret: The new culture must APPEAR to grow organically out of the old culture.
3 Strategies
    Culture eats strategy for lunch. 
    Easiest scenario - New company
        Be careful of entropic. Set up Metacultural rules. Set up inertia in the interest of good. "That's not the way we do it" can be either really positive or negative
    Scenario: Big company, bottom up change
        Got a lot of interest, but inertia back is strong. Metaculture pushing back. Many cases it's best to give up. 
        Community Alignment - align the grassroots strongly
        Spotify model. 
        Reframing - Technical practices are business concerns
            Think about our messaging
            Clean code: Maintain pace into the future, optionality. 
            Continous integraton: reducing risk
            Continuous delivery: reducing risk
        Business Alignment
            Impact mapping - Goal, ACtor, Impact, Deliverable
            Roadmaps - If business is doing these without the software craftspeople then thats a problem
            Lean and systems thinking - Visualize the entire value stream. Over 100 steps in process
                From input to output of value. 
        Learning - Elevate learning to the highest level goal of the company
        Communication - You need to get better at communication
            Cognitive Bias. We think we're good at communication but we aren't. 
            Avoiding bias.
                Clean language
                Non-violent communication
                8 Behaviours for smarter teams. 
                    1. transparent about your thinking
                Book: More Fearless Change
