First presentation by @sandromancuso, Software Craftmanship (2008 - 2017)

Founding books of movement in the 90's:
The Pragmatic Programmer. Andrew Hunt, David Thomas
Software Craftmanship: The New Imperative. Pete McBreen

Better relationships with our clients etc.

'The problem was - Agile happened at the same time' somewhat worrying. 
Short feedback loop.
Software Craftmanship overshadowed by Agile. 

'Agile processes and tools became more important than technical excellence'. Is that really true? 
The Agile Hangover: 
Many Agile projects are now, steadily and iteratively producing bad software. 

2005-2008
Adopting the processes, but not changing the mentality of the teams. Communication breakdown between scrum coaches and developers. 
C-Level people giving big speeches every 6 months, but the business pace is determined by software releases. 

2010 founding of London Software Craftmanship Community
Spreading around europe and israel. 
Global day of Code Retreat. 50 cities, 1000 developers. 
Code Retreat: 45 minute sprints of solving the same problem but with different techniques. 

They're excited about 11,000 developers signing their manifesto.

The Software Craftsman, book plug by speaker. 

Extreme Programming. Cross-pollination. Deliberate Practise. Micro Design, Clean Code. 
Most focus on extreme programming, pairing etc. 

Where are we now? 
LSCC has 4000 members.
londonswcraft.com 

Overall world 131,594 members. 
SoCraTes conferences, code retreat kind of thing. 

Lots of mentions of XP. 
Software Craftmanship is becoming mainstream.
He thinks that is because big companies are demanding it. Saying they are disappointed by agile, but 'mature' enough to admit defeat. 
I suspect that's businesses who haven't actually embraced agile looking for a way to blame agile for their own failures
and 'solve' that using a different branded methodology. 

There is no reliable data that states how many developers exists. 
Tiny tiny population on meetup.com compared to everything else. 
Claims the fact that java has fewer meetups than agile project management means that people who are doing agile aren't interested in software. 
JAVA does not equal being interested in software. Other languages exist. 

Communities are growing. Victim of its own success, lost it's intimacy. 
Most new members are inexperienced developers. Experienced developers are not as active as before. 

Industry in a constant state of inexperience. 

Software Craftmanship is a mindset - a relentless journey to achieve mastery. 
On a professional side - satisfying clients with professionalism and pragmatism. 

if you want to be treated as a professional start behaving like one. 
Developers love complaining. 
Saying that wouldn't you be outraged if you had to pay for your solicitors or hairdressers training and education. 
Companies should invest in their employees but it's a bonus not a right. 
Asking for a pay rise, what are you offering that's different?

Software Craftmanship seems to be 'about' many many things. 
Sharing our knowledge, preparing next generation and moving our industry forward. 

Practises are a means to an end.  We should be atttached to the value they provide, not to the practices themeselves. 

Software Craftmanship IS NOT XP (eXtreme Programming)

What about the future? 

Technical focus. 

Innovation. Searches for new practices. Architecture. More focus on macro design, arhitecture and cloud solutions
work being done on finding new practices. Seems to be mixing in  again with XP. 

Move beyond clean code. 

More work on:
Change: learn how to drive technical changes. 
Collaboration: business and agile/lean processes. 
Shareing: books etc. 

Complaining about our company: Maybe it's our fault for not selling the value. 
Values driven approach with business. 

Provide space for the beginners and experienced. 
Keep doing the foundation work with XP practices. 
Spread craftmanship to other software cdevelopment to other areas. 

Closer collaboration needed. 

Career ownership:
Decided what to learn and when to learn
Work for companies that see IT as a strategic part of their business instead of a cost centre
Stop the sense of entitlement. 

Business involvement:
Try and get closer to businesses. We've focused too long on technocal practises. 

Software craftmanship companies:
Core functions including software development teams. 
Self-management / full involvement in the business
More companies with developers at the centre.
Financial transparency.
Culture of learning in its DNA
Focused on providing best value
apprenticeship programs. 

Diagram, Joining Agile, lean and craftmanship together to form business excellence. 

When craftmanship was born, big friction with Agile and Lean. 

Challenge: Can we help industry to mature when developer numbers doubling every 5 years. 
Community of professionals. 

