Alex Bokboaca, @alexboly

TDD is like brewing coffee. 
Clarify the problem first and allow the solution to appear from tension between existing code and problem. 

Emergent design. Emergent property of a system. From programmer, test code and production code. 

When doing 'Pure' TDD, you shouldn't start with any preconceived ideas about the solution.
Most of the time we fail at this.

The goal isn't to ignore past experience, but to stop you from rerunning the design you are familiar with all the time. 

Constraints. 
You are not allowed to create any:
-   named Constant
-   classes
-   functions
All production code is first written in test code and slowly factored out. 
Groovy and spock. 

write a simple test that fails. 
What is false? 
In logic, false i s atruth value associated to an assertion. 
in programming false is either a constant or a result of a logical test. 

"After a deposit of 5 quid, its balance is £5 quid"
expect: 0 + 5 == 5

We're only allowed to extract constant, extract variable, remove duplication.
What is 5 and what is 0. 

We are using some notions, 
Deposit amount, empty account. 
Empty account = account with zero balance. 

We triangulate in the topology of possible solutions. 
Initial balance
deposit amount
currency
account

Lets triangulate on deposit
Equivalence partitioning or value samplying. 
We can't test all values, so find intervals that are interesting. 
negative, positive, zero, minimum, maximum, non-integers. 

questions.
Can we deposit negative amounts? non
etc.

find valid and invalid values on deposit amount. 

Structure is repeating when we say add 1 euro. add maximum balance.
Remove duplication after you've seen it for 3 or more times. 

so add a constnat maxBalance. 
Add data driven tests - but doesn't feel like it advances us to production code. 

split out duplication into a function. 
We didn't write a lot of code, but we learned a lot about the domain,  we learned a lot about business rules. We have the simplest solution possible. 
We can see how code evolves constant -> variable -> method. 

We can go functional or object oriented.
We only have functions at the moment. So could go functional. 

A class is nothing more than a set of cohesive, partially applied pure functions. 

Back to data driven testing. 
Property-based testing. 
spock-genesis library. 

reflection:
Still feels slow. 
We left our options open for a long time. 

Practising TDD as if you meant it. 
Process feels painful because its all about expanding your views. 

Applying TDD as if you meant it in production 
Mythbusters. Start with small scale experiment before scaling up. 

Seperate small problems e.g: special alerts in a web app, validation in client-side code, a UI control. 
Start a new test suite. When you have the production code, integrate it with the rest of the code. 
Once you practise, it can get faster. 
it helped understand about functional programming. 
Nice to work on a small bit of clean code. 

Embrace constraints. I have never been forced to accept compromises but I have willingly accepted constraints. 
Charles Eames. 

Adrian Bolboaca blog on code kata. 
mozaicworks.com 

Questions:
Should you use it for all prod code? No, just small examples where we don't understand the problem very well. Good technique to have when it applies. 
